# GraphBGS
By Jhony Giraldo and Thierry Bouwmans

**Abstract**: Graph-based algorithms have been successfully applied to unsupervised and semi-supervised learning problems. Recently, there is an increasing interest on graphs in computer vision since they provide tools to exploit the geometrical structure of data in machine learning. Correspondingly, the field of graph signal processing has emerged as a way to analyze the underlying data residing on graphs. In this paper, concepts of sampling and reconstruction of graph signals are introduced in the problem of background subtraction of unseen videos. First, we introduce a new algorithm called Graph Background Subtraction (GraphBGS), which is composed of several steps including instance segmentation, background initialization, graph construction, unseen sampling, and a semi-supervised learning algorithm inspired by the theory of recovery of graph signals to solve the problem of background subtraction. Secondly, theoretical developments are introduced showing a bound for the sample complexity in semi-supervised learning with a smooth prior assumption, and also two bounds for the condition number of the Sobolev norm is presented using concepts of perturbation matrices. In third place, GraphBGS is evaluated on the publicly available Change Detection (CDNet2014), and Scene Background Initialization (SBI2015) databases. Experimental results show that GraphBGS outperforms unsupervised and supervised background subtraction algorithms on unseen videos for the challenging cases of PTZ and shadow in the CDNet2014, and in several sequences of the SBI2015. Code has been made available at: \url{https://github.com/jhonygiraldo/GraphBGS}.
